docs/content/what-is-flink-table-store.md, before:

---
title: What is Flink Table Store?
bookCollapseSection: false
bookHref: "https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-table-store-docs-stable/"
---
<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# What is the Flink Kubernetes Operator?

All information on the Flink Table Store can be found on the [Flink Table Store website.](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-table-store-docs-stable/)

Commit message:

[FLINK-32611] Redirect to Apache Paimon's link instead of legacy flink table store (#665)

docs/content/what-is-flink-table-store.md, after:

---
title: What is Paimon(incubating) (formerly Flink Table Store)?
bookCollapseSection: false
bookHref: "https://paimon.apache.org/"
---
<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
distributed with this work for additional information
regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
"License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
software distributed under the License is distributed on an
"AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations
under the License.
-->

# What is Apache Paimon (formerly Flink Table Store)?

The Flink Table Store had joined Apache Incubator as Apache Paimon(incubating). All information on the Apache Paimon(incubating) can be found on the [Paimon website.](https://paimon.apache.org/)
