material.md, before:

---
title: "Material"
---

{% toc %}

## Apache Flink Logos

We provide the Apache Flink logo in different sizes and formats. You can [download all variants]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo.zip) (7.7 MB) or just pick the one you need from this page.

### Portable Network Graphics (PNG)

<div class="row text-center">
  <div class="col-sm-4">
    <h4>Colored logo</h4>

    <p><img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/200/flink_squirrel_200_color.png" alt="Apache Flink Logo" title="Apache Flink Logo" width="200px" /></p>

    <p markdown="1">**Sizes (px)**:
      [50x50]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/50/color_50.png),
      [100x100]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/100/flink_squirrel_100_color.png),
      [200x200]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/200/flink_squirrel_200_color.png),
      [500x500]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/500/flink_squirrel_500.png),
      [1000x1000]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/1000/flink_squirrel_1000.png)</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-sm-4">
    <h4>White filled logo</h4>

    <p><img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/200/flink_squirrel_200_white.png" alt="Apache Flink Logo" title="Apache Flink Logo" width="200px" style="background:black;" /></p>

    <p markdown="1">**Sizes (px)**:
      [50x50]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/50/white_50.png),
      [100x100]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/100/flink_squirrel_100_white.png),
      [200x200]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/200/flink_squirrel_200_white.png),
      [500x500]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/500/flink_squirrel_500_white.png),
      [1000x1000]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/1000/flink_squirrel_white_1000.png)</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-sm-4">
    <h4>Black outline logo</h4>

    <p><img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/200/flink_squirrel_200_black.png" alt="Apache Flink Logo" title="Apache Flink Logo" width="200px" /></p>

    <p markdown="1">**Sizes (px)**:
      [50x50]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/50/black_50.png),
      [100x100]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/100/flink_squirrel_100_black.png),
      [200x200]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/200/flink_squirrel_200_black.png),
      [500x500]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/500/flink_squirrel_500_black.png),
      [1000x1000]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/1000/flink_squirrel_black_1000.png)</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="panel panel-default">
  <div class="panel-body" markdown="span">
    You can find more variants of the logo [in this directory]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png) or [download all variants]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo.zip) (7.7 MB).
  </div>
</div>

### Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG)

<div class="row text-center img100">
  <div class="col-sm-4 text-center">
    <h4>Colored logo</h4>

    <p><img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/svg/color_black.svg" alt="Apache Flink Logo" title="Apache Flink Logo" /></p>

    <p markdown="1">Colored logo with black text ([color_black.svg]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/svg/color_black.svg))</p>
  </div>
  <div class="col-sm-4">
    <h4>White filled logo</h4>

    <p><img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/svg/white_filled.svg" alt="Apache Flink Logo" title="Apache Flink Logo" style="background:black;" /></p>

    <p markdown="1">White filled logo ([white_filled.svg]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/svg/white_filled.svg))</p>
  </div>
  <div class="col-sm-4">
    <h4>Black outline logo</h4>

    <p><img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/svg/black_outline.svg" alt="Apache Flink Logo" title="Apache Flink Logo" /></p>

    <p markdown="1">Black outline logo ([black_outline.svg]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/svg/black_outline.svg))</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="panel panel-default">
  <div class="panel-body" markdown="span">
    You can find more variants of the logo [in this directory]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/svg) or [download all variants]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo.zip) (7.7 MB).
  </div>
</div>

### Photoshop (PSD)

<div class="panel panel-default">
  <div class="panel-body" markdown="1">
You can download the logo in PSD format as well:

- **Colored logo**: [1000x1000]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/psd/flink_squirrel_1000.psd).
- **Black outline logo with text**: [1000x1000]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/psd/flink_1000.psd), [5000x5000]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/psd/flink_5000.psd).

You can find more variants of the logo [in this directory]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/psd) or [download all variants]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo.zip) (7.7 MB).
</div>
</div>

## Slides

- Till Rohrmann: **Machine Learning with Apache Flink** *(March 23th, 2015)*: [SlideShare](http://www.slideshare.net/tillrohrmann/machine-learning-with-apache-flink)
- Kostas Tzoumas: **Apache Flink Overview** *(January 14th, 2015)*: [SlideShare](http://www.slideshare.net/KostasTzoumas/apache-flink-api-runtime-and-project-roadmap)
- Kostas Tzoumas: **Flink Internals** *(November 18th, 2014)*: [SlideShare](http://www.slideshare.net/KostasTzoumas/flink-internals)
- Till Rohrmann: **Introduction to Apache Flink** *(October 15th, 2014)*: [SlideShare](http://www.slideshare.net/tillrohrmann/introduction-to-apache-flink)
- Stephan Ewen: **Apache Flink Overview** *(October 8th, 2014)*: [SlideShare](http://www.slideshare.net/stephanewen1/apache-flink-overview-at-stockholm-hadoop-user-group)

Commit message:

add color scheme to Material web page

material.md, after:

---
title: "Material"
---

{% toc %}

## Apache Flink Logos

We provide the Apache Flink logo in different sizes and formats. You can [download all variants]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo.zip) (7.7 MB) or just pick the one you need from this page.

### Portable Network Graphics (PNG)

<div class="row text-center">
  <div class="col-sm-4">
    <h4>Colored logo</h4>

    <p><img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/200/flink_squirrel_200_color.png" alt="Apache Flink Logo" title="Apache Flink Logo" width="200px" /></p>

    <p markdown="1">**Sizes (px)**:
      [50x50]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/50/color_50.png),
      [100x100]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/100/flink_squirrel_100_color.png),
      [200x200]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/200/flink_squirrel_200_color.png),
      [500x500]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/500/flink_squirrel_500.png),
      [1000x1000]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/1000/flink_squirrel_1000.png)</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-sm-4">
    <h4>White filled logo</h4>

    <p><img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/200/flink_squirrel_200_white.png" alt="Apache Flink Logo" title="Apache Flink Logo" width="200px" style="background:black;" /></p>

    <p markdown="1">**Sizes (px)**:
      [50x50]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/50/white_50.png),
      [100x100]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/100/flink_squirrel_100_white.png),
      [200x200]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/200/flink_squirrel_200_white.png),
      [500x500]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/500/flink_squirrel_500_white.png),
      [1000x1000]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/1000/flink_squirrel_white_1000.png)</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col-sm-4">
    <h4>Black outline logo</h4>

    <p><img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/200/flink_squirrel_200_black.png" alt="Apache Flink Logo" title="Apache Flink Logo" width="200px" /></p>

    <p markdown="1">**Sizes (px)**:
      [50x50]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/50/black_50.png),
      [100x100]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/100/flink_squirrel_100_black.png),
      [200x200]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/200/flink_squirrel_200_black.png),
      [500x500]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/500/flink_squirrel_500_black.png),
      [1000x1000]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png/1000/flink_squirrel_black_1000.png)</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="panel panel-default">
  <div class="panel-body" markdown="span">
    You can find more variants of the logo [in this directory]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/png) or [download all variants]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo.zip) (7.7 MB).
  </div>
</div>

### Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG)

<div class="row text-center img100">
  <div class="col-sm-4 text-center">
    <h4>Colored logo</h4>

    <p><img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/svg/color_black.svg" alt="Apache Flink Logo" title="Apache Flink Logo" /></p>

    <p markdown="1">Colored logo with black text ([color_black.svg]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/svg/color_black.svg))</p>
  </div>
  <div class="col-sm-4">
    <h4>White filled logo</h4>

    <p><img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/svg/white_filled.svg" alt="Apache Flink Logo" title="Apache Flink Logo" style="background:black;" /></p>

    <p markdown="1">White filled logo ([white_filled.svg]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/svg/white_filled.svg))</p>
  </div>
  <div class="col-sm-4">
    <h4>Black outline logo</h4>

    <p><img src="{{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/svg/black_outline.svg" alt="Apache Flink Logo" title="Apache Flink Logo" /></p>

    <p markdown="1">Black outline logo ([black_outline.svg]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/svg/black_outline.svg))</p>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="panel panel-default">
  <div class="panel-body" markdown="span">
    You can find more variants of the logo [in this directory]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/svg) or [download all variants]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo.zip) (7.7 MB).
  </div>
</div>

### Photoshop (PSD)

<div class="panel panel-default">
  <div class="panel-body" markdown="1">
You can download the logo in PSD format as well:

- **Colored logo**: [1000x1000]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/psd/flink_squirrel_1000.psd).
- **Black outline logo with text**: [1000x1000]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/psd/flink_1000.psd), [5000x5000]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/psd/flink_5000.psd).

You can find more variants of the logo [in this directory]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/psd) or [download all variants]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo.zip) (7.7 MB).
</div>
</div>

## Color Scheme

You can use the provided color scheme which incorporates some colors of the Flink logo:

- [PDF color scheme]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/colors/flink_colors.pdf)
- [Powerpoint color scheme]({{ site.baseurl }}/img/logo/colors/flink_colors.pptx)

## Slides

- Till Rohrmann: **Machine Learning with Apache Flink** *(March 23th, 2015)*: [SlideShare](http://www.slideshare.net/tillrohrmann/machine-learning-with-apache-flink)
- Kostas Tzoumas: **Apache Flink Overview** *(January 14th, 2015)*: [SlideShare](http://www.slideshare.net/KostasTzoumas/apache-flink-api-runtime-and-project-roadmap)
- Kostas Tzoumas: **Flink Internals** *(November 18th, 2014)*: [SlideShare](http://www.slideshare.net/KostasTzoumas/flink-internals)
- Till Rohrmann: **Introduction to Apache Flink** *(October 15th, 2014)*: [SlideShare](http://www.slideshare.net/tillrohrmann/introduction-to-apache-flink)
- Stephan Ewen: **Apache Flink Overview** *(October 8th, 2014)*: [SlideShare](http://www.slideshare.net/stephanewen1/apache-flink-overview-at-stockholm-hadoop-user-group)
